Day 4 Notes:

Topics:

Stack vs Heap Memory
malloc() — Dynamic Memory Allocation
calloc() — Zero-Initialized Allocation
realloc() — Resizing Memory
free() — Releasing Heap Memory
Memory Leaks and Common Memory Bugs
Valgrind — Detecting Leaks & Invalid Access
void* Pointer — Generic & Untyped Pointer
Heap-Based Buffer Creation & Manipulation

Pointer casting for heap memory


Pointer Casting for Heap Memory

1. Void Pointer: When you create a Pointer in C and during creation you dont know what type of data will be stored
   inside this Pointer in that case we use "Void Pointer".
   In the code void_pointer.c you can see we create void Pointer and stored integer and char both.
   Void Pointer is a pointer without any datatype. (malloc, calloc both use void pointer)

   Why it exists?
   Because memory allocation functions cannot know what type you want.

2. malloc: While assiging dynamic memory allocation when I dont know how many memory space it need interms of bytes.
   So in C using built in malloc functions (Memory Allocation) use to assiging custom memory.
   Pros:
      It helps to create dynamic memory allocation.
   Cons:
      While assiging memory space initially it point garbage value until you add some values.

3. calloc:
      It is a contiguous allocation and solves the problem of malloc function. And it allocate 
      memory dynamically and sets all allocated bytes to 0.

4. realloc:
      Let suppose I want add more memory or increase or reallocate few more size into it. Then in that 
      case realloc helps us to merge existing memory with the newly allocated size because realloc does not just give you a new empty empty lot.
      It acts like a Full-Service Moving Company.

5. Valgrind: 
      It is a tool to check in the script if there is any memory leakage or not.
      It simply just check the total allocation is free or not after usage. If not free means memory leak.
      command:
            valgrind -s --leak-check=full --show-leak-kinds=all --track-origin=yes ./outputfile.outputfile


Things to remember:
 - Always allocate memory when you needed and once you are done with it free that memory slot.
